# HEPSIM-Evaluation-Task
In this exercise we will analyze jets—collimated sprays of particles produced when ahigh-energy quark or gluon fragments and hadronizes. We will use the Pythia 8 Quark andGluon Jets dataset.
This notebook assumes that the files QG_jets_1.npz and QG_jets_3.npz are in the same folder as the notebook. If the files are in any different location, please replace with appropriate paths
*SUMMARY*: I have uploaded two .npz files in the folder "pythia8_data" in mydrive in google drive. The files are QC_jets_1.npz and QC_jets_3.npz. After merging the files,  I have separated the gluons and quarks based on their labels. I have used function "get_total_particles" for the separated arrays for gluons and quarks to get the total number of particles. The outputs I have got are: total gluon particles:  5316391
total quark particles:  3335126
From the relation of transverse momentum and azimuthal angle I have constructed the array four momentum. I have used the function "jet_four_momentum" to construct the four momentum and invarian mass for the gluon jets and quark jets. I have considered eta aprox to rapidity in this notebook. "get_jet_width" and "get_p_T_dispersion" give me the jet observables: jet width and pt dispersion. All the relevant output plots are provided inline.
The boost vector is \beta. Boost, \vec{\beta} = \vec{P}/E.
Boosted momentum (that is momentum in the rest frame), \vec{P'} = Λ * \vec{P}. The Lorentz transformation matrix acts on a four vector to transform it to another frame of reference. the transformation matrix is created with the help of \beta and \vec{p}. I have taken jet 1 for the transformation to the rest frame and constructed the transformation matrix that acts on all the constituents of jet1. "get_lorentz_matrix" gives us Lambda and after acting on gluon or quark data it gives us the four momentum in prime frame or rest frame of a particle. Then i have extracted the \vec{p'} from the four vector. The sum of scalar value of \vec{p'} for jet1 gives us a numpy array with 0 or nan components.
Invariant mass is a lorentz scalar and thus is the same for the rest frame. but the jet width and pt dispersion are not invariant under the lorentz transformation. I have used Lab frame here for the classification. The rest frame can also be used after we transform the four momentum for all the jets and get the other two obserables(jet width and pt dispersion). The transformation hasnt been done in this notebook. I have used the three observables in the lab frame and created a pandas dataframe. I have also added the labels(gluon and quark) in my dataset and then encoded it to binary classes(0 and 1). The input features are the three observables and the target is the binary class. i have scaled my input observables and then divided the data for training and testing. Here, I have used Logistic regression as my classifier model. The auc score, AUC: 0.8246844903682333. The roc curve lies well above the baseline. Using the threshold for probability= 0.5 I have calculated confusion matrix. output: "[[15626  4396]
 [ 5265 14713]]".
using coefficient I have found that the PT_dispersion observable is the most important feature for the classifier.

PS: This notebook assumes the standard `QG_jets*.npz` files are downloaded from the official dataset source and placed in the same directory as the notebook.
